Zombi · The Solution 

First get Alex to drop the helicopter keys by the heicopter, there's no point in 
carrying them around with you and it will enable you to carry one more usefull object. 

Choose one of the characters and go down to the security room on the secon floor, 
pick up the set of keys and make your way to the lift, don't bother getting any 
weapons and don't stop to kill any zombies. 

Use the keys and now you will be able to go up to the fourth floor 
(drop the keys in the lift, you don't need them anymore). Leave the lift and yo will 
now be in the main control room, and here you will find three differe keys on the floor, 
each one of the three will start one of the lorries, enabling you to move them. 

Via the lift now make your way back down to first floor and go to each of the lorries 
and using the keys move them infront of the various entrances to the shopping centre. 
The only problem is now that your character will not be able to get back inside. 
Choose another one of characters and send them down to the sports shop on the third floor, 
get the rope, and then go to the balcony above the front entrance on level two, 
use the rope and you other character will climb up and onto the balcony away from danger. 
Get one of your characters to get the fuse, the rubber glove and a gun, an make another 
character to get the torch, take them in the lift to the basement and get the person 
with the torch to use it so when you exit the lift you'll be able to see where you are. 

Both go round to the fusebox and after you've disposed of any zombies get the character 
with the rubber glove to use it and insert the fuse into the fuse box. Now using yet 
another character go to the forth floor and press the buttons on the computer to 
activate the lights in the basement. This is where operation zombi kill starts. 
Get one of the characters to go round each of the levels destroying all zombies he 
meets and then stick all the zombies in the cold store (if you use the tape from 
the video sho with the TV and video in the rental shop you'll see that you have 
to shoot the zombies in the head to kill them). If you now go down to the main 
entrance you will see that some thugs have moved the lorry and have made their way inside. 

Getting the fuel can (level three), a gun (level two), and the hose pipe (level one) 
go outside and go to the right. Soon you will come across a van belonging to the thugs, 
shoot any thugs that are by the van, and then drop the fuel can in front of it. 
Now use the hose pipe and, viola! You now have the precious fuel you need to fly away 
in the helicopter. Get everybody inside the helicopter and start it up with key 
(remember whe you left it) and the game is completed. 

************************


Zombi - Instructions

The aim of the game: find some petrol.

Be careful!  Another team is playing simultaneously, they have no problem
with petrol, but suffer from hunger.  They are called THE HELLS ANGELS.

ICONS CONTROLS:

Icon with hand grabbing an object:

   o USING:  You can only use one object at once.

Icon with cassette being tossed in the trashcan:

   o LEAVING THE GAME

Icon with arrow pointing upwards to cassette:

   o SAVING YOUR GAME

Icon with arrow pointing downwards from cassette:

   o LOADING:
     Loading a game you have already saved.

YOU WISH TO FIGHT:

You have two options:

1 - With bare fists : the fight starts automatically eight second (real
    time) after you arrived on place.

2 - Armed : grab the weapon and the icon "USING".

--- The right button of the mouse can cancel any action.

--- The left on validates any action.

--- Two move, use the cursor and place it on one of the arrow keys
    around the main window.  Validate your choice.

--- To use an icon, select a character, pick up or drop an object.
    Place the cursor and validate.

--- You can directly change some elements of the surroundings while you
    move on to this elements with the cursor and then validate.

A few tips:

1 - Some tools can be used as swords.

2 - Sylvie cannot use the gun nor some of the swords.

3 - Every action bears consequences on the game playing, even if you
    don't notice them.

4 - If you find it too difficult to use the computer, then have a last go
    at "BYE".

5 - The game itself takes care of some situations.

Ex.  If your character is in the same place as corpses, it may loose points
on its health chart.



Cheatcode

If you have seen Dawn of the Dead, you already have a good idea on
how to solve most of the puzzles.  But here's some extra tips
anyway:

1.  To lock up the mall to keep zombies from getting in, you need to
    park the trucks over the entrances.  Get the key from the office
    on the 2nd floor and go to the 4th floor where the keys to the
    trucks are kept.

2.  To keep the dead zombies from coming to un-life, lock them up in
    the freezer in the basement.

3.  Before you can go play in the basement, you need a source of
    light.  Get the fuses and gloves from the 3rd floor and go to
    it!



