CONVERTED BY THE WOMBLES IN 1992!

                           HUNTER  SOLUTION
                           ----------------

                         TYPED BY DR. BUTCHER


     First collect all the  items  in  the  two  huts  on the starting
island. Next board the boat  and  journey westward towards the stores.
Enter the stores and click on AUTO. On the same island enter the house
and collect the enemy uniform and money.  Put on the enemy uniform and
return to the boat.
     Look at the log book and click on the first man. Head towards the
coordinates ( X 163, Y 80 )  and  enter the hangar. Inside collect the
ambulance. Drive to the dot on the  map  (  first man ). Enter the hut
and select TALK. He will reveal  the  coordinates  of  the old man ( X
181, Y 197 ). Enter  these  into  the  log  book  and head back to the
rocket boat by the hangar. Place  some  of  the fuel into the boat and
set off for the coordinates previously given to you by the first man.
     You should now  be  next  to  a  lighthouse.  Enter  and continue
handing over dosh until he  refuses  more.  Now select TALK. He should
tell you the coordinates of the second man  which  are ( X 99, Y 61 ).
Enter these into your log book  and  make haste for the coordinates in
the rocket boat. The second man is  in the church, enter and hand over
the grenades  until  he  refuses  any  more.  The  coordinates  of the
professor will now be yours.
     ( X 59, Y 46 ) are the coordinates that you'll be wanting to head
off for at this point. There is  a helicopter here; add some fuel then
walk to the master key at ( X 164, Y 169 ). The master key is situated
behind the windmill. Now head for  the professor in the power station.
Enter and select TALK, and the  professor  will  ask you to retrieve a
nuclear device from ( X 28, Y 227  ). Return to to the helicopter, add
some fuel, and fly to these  coordinates.  When arriving there will be
three small huts with an  electric  barrier  outside. Do not enter the
right hut, nor touch the barrier. Use  the timed explosives to blow up
the right hand hut. Now enter  the  middle hut and collect the nuclear
devices. Fly back to the  professor  and  hand over the device. Select
TALK and he will now get you to firstly collect a disk from ( X 100, Y
225 ) immediately before visiting the third  man  at ( X 195, Y 119 ).
Return to the helicopter and  go  get  the  disk, picking up some fuel
from ( X 224, Y 123 ) on the way.
     Once at the location of the disk, enter the house and walk behind
the washing machine to collect the  disk. Return to the helicopter and
fly towards the third man. He is  situated behind a rock - select TALK
to be given  instructions  to  retrieve  both  the  security  pass and
computer from ( X 224, Y 153 ) and ( X 224, Y 199 ) respectively.
     A security pass and flight to the location of the computer later,
you should see a  fort.  Put  on  the  enemy  uniform, and operate the
computer. At this point, enter the  information  given in the log book
and make tracks for the prison at (  X  135, Y 239 ). Enter the prison
and talk to the prisoner, he  will  tell  you  to fetch a saw from the
coordinates ( X 151, Y 121 ). Jump to it then.
     At said location enter the building,  collect  the hack - saw and
the antibiotics.  Head  back  to  the  previous  prison  and  give the
prisoner the hack - saw. He will tell  you to pay a visit to the green
monk at ( X 85, Y 174  ).  Make  sure  that  you take some food and an
animal of some kind with  you;  if  you  are having trouble finding an
animal, then try the house at (  X  35,  Y 248 ). The monk will kindly
inform you that there is an injured soldier  at  ( X 10, Y 36 ), which
you should go to. Enter the building at these coordinates, talk to the
soldier and give him the  antibiotics.  The  soldier will require even
more antibiotics before he will tell  that the location of the general
is ( X 135, Y 239 ) and that there  is a handy scroll at ( X 91, Y 173
). So far this reason, collect some  more  antibiotics from ( X 151, Y
121 ) and hand over the booty accordingly.
     Pick up the scroll on the way  to the Generals location. Here you
will find a spookily familiar prison  _  i'd blow it up with grenades,
bazookas, mines or ASM missiles from the helicopter if I were you. Oh,
then i'd walk south  (  out  of  the  screen  )  into  the bunker. And
finally, if you still want  to  know  what  i'd  do  if  I was in your
shoe's, i'd probably shoot the General,  collect his head, return H.Q.
and collect loads of well deserved credits.

end.