    
     SWIV - MANUAL


 SCENARIO

SWIV - Choose between a Helicopter Gunship or an armoured jeep and prepare
to enter enemy territory as part of the elite assault team of SPECIAL
WEAPONS INTERDICTION VEHICLES. Battle against enemy copters, tanks,
submarines, hovercraft, snowmobiles, mechanised flying fish, giant weapons
installations and much more in this vertically scrolling shoot 'em up.
But beware, the enemy are armed with the latest deadly weaponry including
the lethal SILKWORM IV homing missile.

S.W.I.V. - SECRET WEAPONS INSTALLATION VERIFICATION
Primary objective: Verify existence of the enemy's secret weapons
installations and destroy them.

S.W.I.V. - SPECIAL WEAPONS INTERDICTION VEHICLES
Secondary objective: Interdiction mission: the destruction by military
forces of all enemy units.

S.W.I.V. - SILKWORM IV
Mission warning: Use extreme caution. Enemy units are armed with deadly
weaponry, including the enhanced SILKWORM IV homing missile.


STATUS LINE

The status line on the top of the screen will show you the following:
- number of lives remaining (in front of the heart symbol)
- number of bullets fired with each shot (in front of the star symbol)
- your current score


LIVES, CREDITS, TOKENS, SHIELDS

You start the game with 4 lives. A new life will be awarded when your score
breaks the 100,000 mark and at several score marks later on in the game.

You have 2 credits when you start a new game. When you loose all your lives
you may press fire to continue the game from where you just died. Note that
your score will be reset to zero when you do so. You may repeat this
procedure one more time until it's "Game Over".

Destroy the "Goose Copter" and collect the tokens it drops after it has
been destroyed. Shoot the tokens to transform them into weapon upgrades.
For each 5 tokens you collect your vehicle will be upgraded to give you
more firepower, i.e. the default number of bullets fired with each shot
will increase.
Note: if you shoot long enough on a token, it will transform into a star
symbol. Pick it up for a surprise.

There's a special enemy installation that will release a shield when you
destroy it. Either pick up the the shield and use it to protect yourself
from enemy fire for some time, or shoot repeatedly at the shield bubble for
a smart bomb.


CONTROLS

SWIV can be played using Joystick or Keyboard. The standard settings are:

Helicopter:     Joystick Port 2
Jeep:           Keyboard

To change the standard settings press the 'HELP' key to go to the control
selection screen. Use F1 to F3 to change Helicopter controls. Use F6 to F8
to change Jeep controls.

JOYSTICK
Move joystick to control vehicle, button to fire. Hold down fire to lock
Jeep gun in the direction it is facing.

KEYBOARD
CURSOR keys - control vehicle
SHIFT       - fire
              Hold down fire to lock Jeep gun in the direction it's facing.
ALT         - jump (Jeep only).


GENERAL CONTROLS:
P    - Pause/Unpause game
ESC  - Abort game
HELP - Control selection screen




SWIV - HINTS


GOOD GOODIES

The only source of upgrades is the giant Goose Copter. Unfortunately it
doesn't give them up without a fight. It can only be destroyed by pumping
its body full of plasma - but because the head and side-wings are in the
way this can ce rather tricky. Having wide-beam fire helps, but probably
the best way to deal with the Goose is to collect a shield (assuming
there's one nearby) and just plonk yourself inside its body, all guns
blazing.
Of the two beam adjuster upgrades, the wide-beam one is the best -
especially for shooting ships that fire down screen because it means you
don't have to get in line with them to kill them.


MESSING WITH THE BIG BOYS

They are four major guardians at various points in the game. Here's how to
deal with them:

GIANT PULSE LASER
This monster appears towards the end of the desert stage. Assuming you've
got wide-beam fire, position yourself to the left of the laser barrel so
your missiles are hitting both the gun and the small doorway beside it.
Pump away, destroying the missile-firing tank that trundles out of the
doorway. The laser fires three times then pauses. Use this time to move to
the right-hand side of the laser and continue blasting away. Repeat until
the cannon erupts in flames!

SHIELDED LASER EMPLACEMENT
This Mother of all lasers is made up of three individual turrets, and turns
up towards the end of the dead forest. The lasers are only vulnerable when
the glass domes over them peel back - trouble is, this only accures when
they're about to fire! On top of that there are two small turrets that
periodically spew tiny bullets in the players direction. Concentrate on
destroying these first. The big lasers themselves are not actually the
problem. Again, wide-beam firing is vital here.

SLIDE LASER
This, the hardest guardian, crops up near the end of the ice zone. It
trundles left and right - fast - and rains the plasma down the screen. In
addition, green blobs leach out from the walls and head in the players
direction. The trick is to keep moving horizontally so that you're always
either just ahead or just behind the laser turret. Keep firing - with
wide-beam you should hit it, and the firing also destroys any approaching
blobs. Eventually the laser should give up the ghost.

THE FINAL GUARDIAN
This big fella appears towards the end of final stage of the game, but
doesn't actually cause the player any trouble until it has docked with its
main body. There are no hard and fast rules for dealing with this one -
just keep blasting away, dodging the myriad bullets until the inevitable
happens. But the game's not over yet - you'll see why when you get there!

